# Remote Assessments

By: [Joe Politz](https://jpolitz.github.io/)

Many classes will struggle with what to do about make-up exams, missed work,
and attendance policies when remote and in exceptional circumstances. There's
one particular principle you could choose to follow in general that's
particularly useful right now: don't make students ask for exceptional
responses to exceptional situations. As a bonus, the examples below reduce your
brainload in responding to requests from stressed students.

Examples I've used:

- If you miss the midterm, your final exam is going to count more heavily
  weighted in your final grade as a result.
- If you miss a programming assignment, you can resubmit it to the autograder
  and get back C%, where C is usually 30-70% of the original credit depending
  on the course.
- If you make bad mistakes/clearly missed the point in the written part of an
  assignment, we give you feedback you can respond to and resubmit in order to
  earn back part of the credit.
- If you miss a review quiz that went with a lecture, know that you can miss N
  quizzes with no impact on your grade.
- If you want, you can switch to P/NP until essentially the end of the quarter.

These policies are posted on the syllabus, and announced at relevant times
(like when midterm grades are released). Of course, the options corresponding
to significant assessments require demonstrating mastery at some point.  I'm
eager to give students a strong grade if they demonstrate mastery off of the
schedule we have in mind for the course. Giving them a 0 for missing an
assignment deadline that tanks their grade or requires them to reach out for an
exception is draconian in the current environment (and arguably could be
avoided in non-extreme times, as well).

## Rationale

<div class='sidenote'>Though in 2020, it's likely that with all that students
are dealing with, it's much better to err on the side of granting these
requests!</div>

A lot of us, myself included, don't like making exceptions for students when
they tell us about a personal constraint, emergency, etc. While it feels
compassionate in the moment it can feel unfair to other students, and I think
it actually is in many cases.

Here's why â€“ if students are already on the edge about if they feel welcome or
not, they're really unlikely to have the courage to ask for an exception,
extension, etc. So even if we (kindheartedly or out of exhaustion) give special
exceptions to students who reach out, we may be giving a skewed advantage to
those who are trained to ask for exceptions rather than take their lumps
stoically.

(If you don't believe me, maybe believe education sociologist Jess Calarco, who
IMO compellingly argues that the skill and willingness to ask for help can be
ingrained along familiar privilege lines
https://twitter.com/JessicaCalarco/status/1252377119650242563?s=20,
https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0003122414546931)

Since I know it's a long road ahead for all students to be comfortable
approaching me over email/Zoom, I like to formalize policies for what to do in
exceptional circumstances and announce them. Then for the students who reach
out, I can direct them to policy, but they don't have to reach out to have some
recourse. In the long run, it also saves me work and arguments with students,
because a pointer to an official policy has all kinds of clearly nice
properties over one-off solutions.

Naturally, it's also important for me to work towards making students
comfortable approaching me, and I always need to work on responding to special
requests with compassion and fairness whether declining or granting them. But
these policies are an important step, too, especially at scale.


